# tuition-assistance-program
Analyzing the Distribution of a Tuition Assistance Program in Montgomery County, Maryland, US

The county of Montgomery in Maryland, USA has enacted a tuition assistance program for their local government employees that allows them to enroll in various schools and get their courses subsidized. This project aims to analyze the general trends and distributions of these courses and the enrollees involved. This research includes 1393 subsidized courses for government employees taking their Bachelors’ degrees. On average, each course costs around ~700 USD (maximum cost: 2130 USD). 
This research project has identified that a huge majority (~20%) of the total courses subsidized were for business-admin majors. Furthermore, business majors are the most ubiquitous students in Montgomery’s local government incentivizing future students to potentially study Business-Admin due to its flexibility. Consequently, political and government-related majors are surprisingly uncommon in the county. 
Finally, most subsidized courses were offered by University of Maryland, a state-based university, but community colleges offered a huge majority of the courses as well. This opens the door to conversations and initiatives in improving community college education and student acquisition initiatives.
In the final analysis, Montgomery’s pet project appears to be a success; incentivizing people who take up business-admin major as well as those who go to state-based universities. However, this research also raises salient points on reevaluating the courses and majors of the individuals in the tuition assistance program. There is room for enrolling in community colleges and taking up less popular courses such as the social sciences. This calls for increased diversity and plurality in Montgomery local government’s education profile.
